While resumes provide a snapshot of a candidate’s professional experience, cover letters offer insights into their personality, motivations, and interests.
It allows applicants to showcase their communication skills and articulate why they are a perfect fit for the role and the organization.
This meticulous process allows us to gain a deeper understanding of the candidate’s attitude, communication skills, and coding capabilities.Moreover, it’s a chance for the candidate to demonstrate their genuine interest in joining HENNGE, and to what extent they are likely to align with our values and culture.
Yes, in addition to saying why they chose to apply for a position at HENNGE, it’s a chance to tell their wider story. For example, if the candidate is not from Japan, we’d like to hear why they want to come here, what’s the motivation that drives them? From this we can then gain a deeper understanding of any highlighted details, such as relevant skills and experience. This shouldn’t just be a list of coding languages used, but how have they been used? What were the results that made this experience really interesting or exciting?

So what elements make a cover letter stand out in the eyes of the HENNGE’s recruitment team?

When it comes to crafting an impactful cover letter for HENNGE, clarity, conciseness, and relevance are paramount. It should effectively address the candidate’s motivations for joining HENNGE; highlight relevant skills and experiences not fully captured in their CV; and demonstrate a genuine interest in the company and its mission.
The cover letter should also show that the candidate has taken the time to get to know HENNGE and make it explicitly clear what position they are actually applying for instead of using a generic template.
Attention to detail is crucial here. For example, HENNGE is all capitalized, but applicants often miss this, misspell it – or even address it to a different company! These kinds of basic errors show a lack of research and effort, and will instantly detract from the application.

so could you elaborate on the role of cover letters in terms of candidates’ expectations and aligning them with HENNGE’s culture?

Crafting a cover letter requires candidates to conduct research on HENNGE, its products, culture, and values. By delving into these aspects, candidates gain a better understanding of what to expect from HENNGE as an employer.
Typically, successful candidates have found a way to clearly align their personal expectations, motivations, and career aspirations with HENNGE’s vision as a tech company, fostering a mutually beneficial relationship. Candidates who demonstrate a genuine interest in HENNGE and a willingness to contribute to its success are more likely to thrive within our dynamic work environment.

So it’s about communicating why your hiring would be a win-win for all involved. And how would you describe the type of talent that would best fit HENNGE’s culture?

At HENNGE, we’re all about actively contributing to the development and improvement of Open Source Software, so we value individuals who possess a passion for technology and a relentless drive for learning and growth. Candidates who exhibit curiosity, adaptability, and a willingness to embrace challenges are well-suited to thrive in our fast-paced environment.
We also place a strong emphasis on diversity and inclusion, so candidates with experience working in diverse and international teams are highly valued. Ultimately, we seek individuals who embody our core values and are committed to driving innovation and excellence in everything they do.
I’d say a strong candidate is someone who can show how they are a “learnaholic”.
Somebody who is keen to keep learning and evolving. This is one important facet of the HENNGE way. In fact, the company name is derived from two words conveying transformation and challenge. Are there examples you can highlight that demonstrate how you would help HENNGE keep on transforming while continuing to challenge yourself?

